	
	master

	Ganglia	

	Ganglia are (cerebral) centres of the cerebro-spinal!/(sympathetic) nervous 
	system. There seven principal ganglia of the (sympathetic) nervous-system: 
	1. sacral, 2. prostatic, 3. epigastric, 4. cardiac, 5. pharyngeal, 6. 
	post-nasal, & 7. pineal.
	
	The awakening of the ganglia bears witness to Nature, giving a knowledge of 
	the Divine/Life's Mustery. They reveal to man/reveals those higher 
	planes/states of consciousness where/in which one can apprehend the 
	Divine/Cosmic Plan and consciously participate in it. Engergised ganglia 
	may be described as concave rotating disks.
	
	---

	#The seven/six physical plexuses extend up the vertebral/spinal column. The 
	#superphysical are within the skull.
	the fourth supphys plex is pituitary body
	knot, nerve centre, centre, ganglion

	---








(EXALT THE ELEMENT OF FIRE
	# Connected to a comment made in EST about the Mayavi Rupa developing on 
	# its own under the guidance of Atma-Buddhi?)???



	

	"EXALT THE ELEMENT OF FIRE.--Constant aspiration, and desire to know God's 
	Law liberates in man that Force which is a Living Flame, and which acts 
	under the direction of the God in man, and with or without the conscious 
	effort of the finite mind.

	-
	Constant aspiration liberates the Kundalini which is living fire, and acts 
	under the direction of the God in man, with or without conscious effort. 
	This fire displaces the sluggish? nervous force and opens and 
	perfects/regenerates those nerve centres/minor brains
	-

This Fire, once liberated, begins immediately to 
	displace the sluggish nervous force and to open and perfect those nerve 
	centres or minor brains, atrophied from disuse, and which when regenerated 
	reveal to man superphysical states of consciousness and knowledge of his 
	lost Sovereignty over Nature.

	"The Solar Force manifests on the physical plane by passing through the 
	ganglia of the sympathetic nervous system and thence up the spine to the 
	brain where its currents unite to build up the deathless Solar or
Spiritual Body. In its passage from one ganglion to another its voltage is raised, 
and it awakens and is augmented by the power peculiar to each ganglion which it 
dominates. p. 52 These ganglia or centres are the "concave mirrors whose property 
it is to concentrate the Fire of the World or Solar Force. In the cerebro spinal 
system there are many centres awaiting regeneration. Hence the spinal cord is the 
relaxed string whose pitch must be raised by the exaltation of the Element of Fire 
which is in us.

"Knowledge as to the development of this Force has been sacredly guarded in all 
ages lest man, through ignorance, should employ it to his destruction. That soul 
who will renounce all personal ambition, and will seek by selfless service of his 
fellow beings to obey the Divine Spirit within may, without external teaching or 
assistance, evoke this Flame and achieve unaided a knowledge of Nature's secrets 
and mysteries. But unless governed by the God within, and with selfless purpose 
this Fire will intensify the lower passions and make the man a destructive force 
working contrary to the Law of Nature.

He who seeks divine knowledge will surely find it for the Divinity in man ever 
strives to render unto him his lost birthright. No sincere effort to solve God's 
Mystery passes unheeded by the Silent Watcher within."
	
	
	

	___
	
		
	"If we wish to recover empire over the Salamanders, we must purify and 
	exalt the Element of Fire which is in us, and raise the pitch of that 
	relaxed string. We have only to concentrae the Fire of the World in a globe 
	of crystall by meams of concave mirror; and this is the art which all the 
	ancients religiously concealed, and which the divine Theophrastus 
	discovered.

	# Sounds like EST depiction of the brain chambers in vision.?

	A Solar Powder is formed in this globe, which being purified in itself and 
	freed from any admixture of the other Elements, and being prepared 
	according to the Art, becomes in a very short time supremely fitted to 
	exalt the Fire which is in us, and to make us become, as it were, of an 
	igneous nature."

---

