


##Preliminary Instructions

#Concentration

For practical instruction it is first necessary to have acquired the power of concentration. These instructions are of little use to one who has not alreadly attained this power. An order of daily meditaion is necessary. There is no other way of attaining this power of concentration, and without this power, no progress can be made or even begun.

#Regular Breathing


For instruction in Practical Occultism it is necessary to have acquired power of 
concentration, and then to receive certain definite directions.


The latter would be of little use to a student who has not already attained the 
power of concentrating his Mind and Will. This power should be cultivated and 
trained in the Lower Degrees, and it is to this end that the Rule ordering daily 
meditation was laid down. There is no other way of attaining the power of 
concentration, and without this power, largely developed, no progress can be made 
in Practical Occultism, no beginning even of it being possible.
---
Manas absorbs the light of Buddhi. Buddhi is Arupa and can absorb nothing. 
	When the Ego takes all the light of Buddhi, it takes that of Atma, Buddhi 
	being the vehicle, and thus the three become one. This done, the full Adept 
	is one spiritually, but has a body. The fourfold Path is finished and he is 
	one. The Masters' bodies are as far as they are concerned, illusionary, and 
	hence do not grow old, become wrinkled, etc.

	The student, who is not naturally psychic, should fix the fourfold 
	consciousness in a higher plane and nail it there. Let him make a bundle of 
	the four lower and pin them to a higher state. He should centre on this 
	higher, trying not to permit the body and intellect to draw him down and 
	carry him away. Play ducks and drakes with the body, eating, drinking and 
	sleeping, but living always on the ideal.
---
PHILOSOPHIC PROCEDURES

By concentration in meditation upon a subject, with the effort of regular breathing (the inhale and exhale occupying the same space of time), the mind may be held so that it not subject to any other thought.



	"PHILOSOPHIC PROCEDURES.--By concentration in medtation upon a given 
subject, and by the EFFORT of regular breathing, the inhalation and exhalation 
occupying the same space of time, the mind may be held so that it is not subjeé to 
other thought than that pertaining to the object or symbol of expression about 
which man desires knowledge.
-

And if man will persist in this practice he can enter 
into an harmonious relationship with the Divinity within and from that source can 
gain knowledge which is the result of the soul's own experience while passing 
through the higher and lower states of matter.

At the same time, if man will 
concentrate upon the highest he can evoke from within self that Solar Force and 
Power which if directed upward will awaken and revitalise those ganglia or organs 
of perception hitherto withheld from his use.

--

	"If it be true " From God we came, to God we return," life is but the 
attainment of that consciousness which is of God. ?

-
Man is 


And man is therefore shut out 
from the knowledge of his true being and estate until he seeks at-onement with his 
own Divine Life-Principle, and its evolution and manifestation in him.

-

Thus concentration in meditation, holding the mind receptive to the Divinity within and 
in a positive attitude of repression to all outside thought, is seen to be an 
exalted form of prayer or communion with God, Nature, whereby man may become a 
sharer in the wonders of God's Omnipotence and recover his lost Sovereignty.

	---