
	# Still need to compare.	

	# Sevenfold Classification of Consciousness

	# Edit table to synergise and make smaller
		# Also there are terms used in in4 that need to be added
		   # first and second list
	# Combine descs from book and in4



7 X

6 Spiritual


5 Mental –

4 Passional

3 Emotional

2 Instinctual

1 Sensuous
___
	THE SEVEN SCALES OF CONSCIOUSNESS

	Objective Conscious	
	145 Astral Consciousness YES 146 Kama-Pranic-Buddhic - all of 
	them YES
	

	# Descs of states of consc
	# Compare with in4 first
	# Desc need editing - TODO
	



___


7th sub-plane Âtmic Consciousness that of the Para-Ego.

6th sub-plane Buddhic Consciousness that of the Inner Ego.

5th sub-plane Mânasic Consciousness that of the Higher or Individual 
Ego.

4th sub-plane Kâma-Mânasic Consciousness that of the Personal Ego or 
Higher Psychic.

3rd sub-plane Prânic-Kâmic Consciousness or Psychic.

2nd sub-plane Astral Consciousness

1st sub-plane Objective Consciousness

The sub planes are again divisible each into seven, once again making up 
the forty-nine.

[NOTE.––The term Para-Ego was adopted by H.P.B., as descriptive of the 
seventh sub-plane of the lowest Prakriti, to signify that that plane was 
beyond individuality. She pointed out that “Âtma-Buddhi, on this 
Prâkritic plane, act more in the atoms of the body, and in such 
organisms as bacilli and microbes than in man as a whole.” Hence they 
are well-nigh senseless on this plane, what we call consciousness being 
very dull. “The Atom,” she said on another occasion, “is the Âtman of 
the lowest Prakriti.”]

We will now proceed to discuss the nature of the septenary consciousness 
on the two lowest planes of Prakriti, the Objective and the Astral, viz. 
the seven States of Consciousness on the Objective Terrestrial plane, 
that of globe D [in the diagram on p. 200, Vol. I of The Secret 
Doctrine]; and also the seven States of Consciousness on the Astral 
Prâkritic plane. First of all we must remember that perceptive life 
proper begins on the Astral sub-plane on every plane. It is not the 
physical, or objective, molecules which see, hear, etc.

[NOTE.––The centres of sensation, or of internal action, that is of 
seeing, hearing, smelling, etc.––called Indriyas in Eastern systems––are 
located in the astral man, the physical molecules being only the 
necessary material agents for receiving impulses from without and 
transmitting them to the centres. The organs of action, or Karmendriyas 
(see Diagram V) are Indriyas, or centres acquired for Karma (external 
action, in this case). The true centres, which impel to action, are in 
the astral man, i.e., belong to Astral Consciousness.]

Self-consciousness proper only begins between Kâma and Manas.

OBJECTIVE PRÂKRITIC CONSCIOUSNESS

	Seven Degress of Consciousness

	The 
	
	1. Objective Sensuous Consciousness

includes all that pertains to the five physical senses in man and rules in animals, birds, fishes, 
some insects, etc. Here are the “Lives”; their consciousness is in 
Âtma-Buddhi; they are entirely without Manas.

2. Astral Instinctual Consciousness.––The consciousness of sensitive 
plants, of ants, spiders, and some night-flies (Indian), but not of 
bees. Among other animals the non-mammalian vertebrates are without this 
consciousness, but the placental mammals have all the potentialities of 
human consciousness, though of course dormant, or latent, at present. On 
this plane is the consciousness of idiots. The common phrase, “he has 
lost his mind,” is an occult truth; for when, through fright or other 
cause, the lower mind becomes paralyzed, then the consciousness acts on 
the astral plane. The study of lunacy will throw much light on this 
point. This may well be called the “nerve plane.” It is cognized by our 
“nervous senses,” of which, as yet, modern physiology knows nothing. 
Hence it is that a clairvoyant can read with the eyes bandaged, with the 
tips of the fingers, the pit of the stomach, etc. This consciousness is 
greatly developed in the deaf and dumb. On this plane everything is 
reversed, reflected upside down.

3. Kâma-Prânic, or Physiological-Emotional Consciousness.––This is the 
general life-consciousness which belongs to the objective world, even to 
the stone; for if the stones were not living they could not decay, 
crumble away, or emit a spark. Affinity between chemical elements is a 
manifestation of this, Kâma-Prânic consciousness. To this plane, also, 
belong the life-preservative instincts, as for instance that which 
prevents a kitten going into the water and getting drowned. [A stone 
could not crumble unless there was life throughout it; for the crumbling 
is not due only to friction by water, air, etc., or the

 

Page 662

action of frost, but to the fact that every particle in the stone is in 
a state of active vibration, performing rhythmical motions, not in a 
state of inertia. These life-waves, pulsing in the stone, throw its 
molecules apart, thus enabling foreign matters and influences to enter 
between them, force them farther apart, and so cause crumbling away. 
Even this is not all: the vibratory action of the life itself, apart 
from any interference from without, tends to ultimately disrupt the 
combinations of molecules that make up the stone.]


4. Kâma-Mânasic, or Psychic, or Passional-Emotional Consciousness. ––In 
animals and idiots the instinctual consciousness on the lower planes of 
sensation is in this state; in man these are rationalized. For instance, 
if a dog is shut up in a room, it has the instinct to get out, but is 
unable to do so because this instinct is not sufficiently rationalized 
to take the means necessary for its liberation. A man at once takes in 
the situation, and lets himself out. The highest degrees of this 
Kâma-Mânasic consciousness are psychic, there being within this 
sub-plane, as with all others, seven degrees from the instinctual and 
psychic.

5. Mânasic or Mental-Emotional Consciousness.––From this plane Manas 
stretches up to Mahat.

	6. Buddhic, or Spiritual Emotional Consciousness.
	
	The plane of Buddhi and of the Auric Envelope. From this plane 
	consciousness goes to the “Father in Heaven,” Âtma, and reflects 
	all that is in the Auric Envelope. The Mânasic and Buddhic 
	states? cover the planes from the psychic to the divine, but it is 
	impossible at this stage to define them intelligibly. Call the 
	highest plane x if you will. You can’t understand it.


	[7. Auric Consciousness.

	The consciousness is on this plane at the moment of death, or in 
	exceptional visions. Here is the consciousness of the drowning 
	man when he remembers all the past incidents of his life in a 
	flash. The memory of this consciousness must be stored in the 
	heart, “the seat of Buddhi.” Then it will remain there, but 
	impressions from this Âtmic plane cannot be made on the physical 
	brain.] - bullshit?

