The student will find in what follows a variety of classifications and septenary 
divisions. He must bear in mind that every Principle in man has its seven aspects, 
and every cell and organ its seven components. A Principle may have an organ in the 
Body specially related to it, as the Spleen to the Linga-Śarîra; none the less will 
the Linga-Śarîra have its correspondence in every cell in the Body, as also in 
other great organs. Thus the Brain has its seven divisions, each corresponding to a 
Principle, though it corresponds as a whole to the Psycho-Intellectual Man. In this 
there is no contradiction, as the elementary student at first imagines, when he 
finds different correspondencesgiven for the same Principle, but only an 
exemplification of the great truth that every molecule is a mirror of the universe, 
every microcosm the mirror of a macrocosm.

Man’s Physical Body has its seven aspects, each aspect representing a Principle; 
then each of these has its seven sub-divisions, each subdivision in its turn 
representing a Principle; and we have the “forty-nine fires” as seen in the 
Sthûla-Śarîra. It is because of this intricate correspondence, carried out in every 
detail, that man will ultimately be able to come into contact with every realm of 
being in the Universe. This, and this alone, makes Râja-Yoga possible.

---

SEVEN SCALES OF CONSCIOUSNESS
	
	"There are seven scales or shades of consciousness, of the Unit; e.g., in a 
	moment of pleasure or pain; four lower and three higher."

	"[Apperception means self-perception, conscious action, not as with 
	Leibnitz, but when attention is fixed on the perception.]

	You can take these on any planes: e.g. bad news passes through the four 
	lower stages before coming to the heart.

	Or take Sound: 1. It strikes the ear. 2. Self-perception of the ear. 3. On 
		the psychic or mental, which carries it to 4. Vital (harsh, soft, 
		strong, weak; etc.).
	"

---

The Seven Stages of Consciousness The Mayavic Body
	

	COLOUR
	
		# 131 Triangle and Quarternary NO
	
	
	"The Higher Mans cannot reflect itself, but when the Green passes upwards 
	it becomes a mirror for the Higher; it is then no more Green, having passes 
	from its associations. The Psyche then becomes spiritual, the Ternary is 
	reflected in the Fourth, and the Tetraktys is formed."
	


	ANTAHKARANA
	
		# 133 Antahkarana

	"There are seven divisions in the Antahkarana. As you pass from each to the 
	next you approach the Higher Manas. When you have bridged the fourth you 
	may consider yourself fortunate."


---
LOWER MANAS, OR KÂMA-MANAS
# About colours.

There comes a moment, in the highest meditation, when the Lower Manas is withdrawn 
into the Triad, which thus becomes the Quaternary, the Tetraktys of Pythagoras, the 
highest, the most sacred, of all symbols. This upward withdrawal of the Lower Manas 
leaves what was the Quaternary as a Lower Triad, which is then reversed. The Upper 
Triad is reflected in the Lower Manas. The Higher Manas cannot reflect itself, but 
when the Green passes upward it becomes a mirror for the Higher; it is then no more 
Green, having passed from its associations. The Psyche, thus separated from Kâma, 
unites itself with the Higher Triad and becomes spiritual; the Triad is reflected 
in the Fourth, and the Tetraktys is formed. So long as you are not dead, there must 
be something in which the Higher Triad is to be reflected; for there must be 
something to bring back to the waking Consciousness the experiences passed through 
on the higher plane. The Lower Manas is a tablet, which retains the impressions 
made upon it during trance; thus serving as a carrier between the Higher Manas and 
the everyday Consciousness. This withdrawal of the Lower Manas from the Lower 
Quaternary, and the formation of the Tetraktys, is the Turîya state; it is entered 
on the Fourth Path, and is described in a note to The Voice of the Silence as a 
state of high spiritual consciousness, beyond the dreamless state. –––––––––– * See 
Le Comte de Gabalis, by the Abbé de Montfaucon de Villars. ––––––––––

---

	## OCCULT ANATOMY

	# Linga Sharira = (Astral Body) linga, in this context interpreted as 
	# "mark, image"; and śarīra, "body". There will be a desc of diffs btwn 
	# Astral & Mental body.

---
